So now that the shopping cart extends component and therefore uses that logic, we can do the same on
the other classes as well,
for example on product item. There we also start by adding extends and then component
and now here in render, again instead of creating the element like this, we can get access to the product
element by calling this create root element, pass in the tag
we want to create which here for a single item is a list item element and then any class we want to
add which in this case is product-item.
I don't need any attributes here, just as we didn't need any on the cart and therefore I'll not add that
third argument here,
that line is no longer required because the class will be added here inside of createRootElement. I
definitely want to set innerHTML, that is the logic which has to remain in this render method
here and then here, I want to get access to the button, add the event listener but no longer return product
element, instead the created element will be hooked into the DOM
by my logic here in createRootElement here and we just have to make sure that we call its constructor,
so the constructor of component and forward the ID of the element in our DOM where we do want to
add the item.
Now of course, that now is not this div's ID here because we're working on a single product item,
this should be part of our product list and previously it's here in the product list where I called
render and then I appended the return product element. Now since render doesn't return it anymore
and of course we still could return it but I always want to use the same approach,
I'll not do it like this anymore,
remove that instead and instead here when we create a product item besides, passing in product, I also
want to pass in an ID of the element where this item should be added to and that ID is in the end
an ID which should be assigned to that product list.
So for now, we'll also change this to use the base class
but for now, I'll go to product list and add an ID, prod list or anything like that,
totally up to you and then use this ID here, prod list which I pass as a second argument to the product
item constructor. Now in the product item constructor, we have to work with that second argument,
so the render hook ID is the second parameter we should accept there
so that here we can all be called super
and it's a good convention to do this first so that you make sure that your base class is fully initialized
before you start working in your subclass
and here to super, I forward the render hook ID so that the base class has everything it needs to make
createRootElement work. Therefore now if we save that and we again reload here, we'll get an error.
Now this one can be tricky to spot but it's important to understand where it's stemming from,
do you have an idea what could be causing this? Well we're having problems appending our item in line
37 which is that line here in createRootElement, so we probably have problems finding an element with
that ID.
Now the problem is that of course in prod list, I assign this ID here to prod list and then I do
pass that same ID to product item
but what happens thereafter?
we create a product item object,
we forward our ID to it and then I call render on product item.
Now when I call render here, what's the implication of that?
The implication is that in the product item class here or in the object created based on the class, this
method executes. There I call the createRootElement and createRootElement will create me a list item
and try to add it to the DOM.
Now that's the part that will fail because if we have a closer look at product list, we see that yes
we set the ID on product list but product list itself hasn't been added to the DOM yet,
I return product list here in render
after I went through the loop,
so after I tried to create my product items and add them to the DOM,
so until this point nothing has been added to the DOM and that's the problem. Now to make that work,
let's already adjust this function here in the product list class to also use the base class.
So here product list should also extend component
and with that extended, here where I create the product list, I want to use this createRootElement and
create an unordered list here,
give it a class name of product list and now also,
now I'll utilize that third argument, an array of attributes where I want to create a new element attribute
using that class we added earlier and there, we can pass in two arguments -
the first one is the name of the attribute, that will be ID so that we in the end add that ID here
inside of createRootElement and the value for that attribute will be prod list for example,
so what I use as ID here. Now this will create that element there,
now we can get rid of that and also of that line where I assign my class name here. we also no longer
need to return product list here, instead
now, well
we can get rid of that but instead now we have to make sure that in the constructor of product list.
We call the parent constructor of component and we tell that constructor where to render the product
list
and that would be the app ID or the element with the app ID but to be a bit more flexible, let's
just again accept an argument here and forward that to super so that in the place where we create product
list, we can decide where to render the list instead of doing it inside of product list which can make
your code harder to reason about.
So now in the place where I use product list, which is here where I create the shop, I create my new product
list like this and I want to call render there, I'm not interested in the return value though because
there will be no return value, I don't want to append anything anywhere, I don't need to get access to
my element by ID here anymore,
instead to product list, I also forward app, this ID and now product list will be rendered and it
will therefore then only try to add current items after it has been rendered itself. And with that if
we now reload, this is gone, this works again and if I now add items to the shopping cart,
this also works and now we're embracing this concept of inheritance and of having a base class to share
some common logic.